---
title: "New Learning Language - Java strings"
---
  <h1>Java switch</h1>


**Java switch Statements**

 - Instead of writing many if..else statements, you can use the switch statement.
 - The switch statement selects one of many code blocks to be executed.
 - Java has the following conditional statements:
  
 - syntax: 

 - This is how it works:
 - The switch expression is evaluated once.
 - The value of the expression is compared with the values of each case.
 - If there is a match, the associated block of code is executed.
 - The break and default keywords are optional, and will be described later in this chapter
 - The example below uses the weekday number to calculate the weekday name:
 - The code structure is as follows: 

**The break Keyword**
  
 - When Java reaches a break keyword, it breaks out of the switch block.
 - This will stop the execution of more code and case testing inside the block.
 - When a match is found, and the job is done, it's time for a break. There is no need for more testing.
 
**The default Keyword**

 -  The default keyword specifies some code to run if there is no case match:

 - The code structure of an default keyword is as follows:
 
  <h1>Java while loop</h1>


**loops**

 - Loops can execute a block of code as long as a specified condition is reached.

 - Loops are handy because they save time, reduce errors, and they make code more readable.
  
**Java While Loop**
  
 - The while loop loops through a block of code as long as a specified condition is true:
  
**syntax**
  
     - while (condition) {
     - }
  
 - The code structure of an java while loop is as follows: 
   
**The Do/While Loop:**

 - The do/while loop is a variant of the while loop. This loop will execute the code block once, before checking if the condition is true, then it will repeat the loop as long as the condition is true.
  
**syntax**

    - do {
    -  // code block to be executed
    - }
    - while (condition);
 - The example below uses a do/while loop. The loop will always be executed at least once, even if the condition is false, because the code block is executed before the condition is tested:
 
 - The code structure of an do while loop is as follows: 
 
  <h1>Java For Loop</h1>

 
 - When you know exactly how many times you want to loop through a block of code, use the for loop instead of a while loop: 

**Syntax**

    - for (statement 1; statement 2; statement 3) {
    - // code block to be executed
    - }
  
 - Statement 1 is executed (one time) before the execution of the code block.
 - Statement 2 defines the condition for executing the code block.
 - Statement 3 is executed (every time) after the code block has been executed.
  
 -  The code structure of an java for loop is as follows: 

**Nested Loops:**

 - It is also possible to place a loop inside another loop. This is called a nested loop.

 - The "inner loop" will be executed one time for each iteration of the "outer loop":
 - The code structure of an Nested loop is as follows: 
  
 **Java For Each Loop**
 
   -  There is also a "for-each" loop, which is used exclusively to loop through elements in an array:
  
 **syntax**
  
      - for (type variableName : arrayName) {
      -  // code block to be executed
      - }
   -  The code structure of an Each loop as follows: 

  
 <h1>How did I learn?</h1>

  - https://www.udemy.com/course/java-tutorial
  -  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_(programming_language)

<h1>Challenges faced</h1>

- While writing if else conditions we need to evaluate data for evrery condition such as for greater than condition lessa than conditions and equal to conditions.
