---
title: "New Learning Language - Java strings"
---

 <h1>Java If ... Else</h1>


**Java Conditions and If Statements**

 - we already know that Java supports the usual logical conditions from mathematics.
 - Less than: a < b
 - Less than or equal to: a <= b
 - Greater than: a > b
 - Greater than or equal to: a >= b
 - Equal to a == b
 - Not Equal to: a != b
 - we can use these conditions to perform different actions for different decisions.

 - Java has the following conditional statements
 - Use if to specify a block of code to be executed, if a specified condition is true
 - Use else to specify a block of code to be executed, if the same condition is false
 - Use else if to specify a new condition to test, if the first condition is false
 - Use switch to specify many alternative blocks of code to be executed
 
**The if Statement:**

   - Use the if statement to specify a block of Java code to be executed if a condition is true.
   - if (condition) {
   - The code structure of an if statement is as follows:
   
**The else Statement:**

   - Use the else statement to specify a block of code to be executed if the condition is false.
   
**syntax**

   - if (condition) {
 
   - } else {
  
   - }
   -  The code structure of an else statement is as follows:
   
**The else if Statement:**

   - Use the else if statement to specify a new condition if the first condition is false.
   
**syntax**

   - f (condition1) {
  
   - } else if (condition2) {
  
   - } else {
  
   - }
   -  The code structure of an else if statement is as follows:
      
 **Java Short Hand If...Else:**
 
   - There is also a short-hand if else, which is known as the ternary operator because it consists of three operands.
   - It can be used to replace multiple lines of code with a single line, and is most often used to replace simple if else statements:

 **syntax**
 
   - The code structure of an short hand if else is as follows:
  
  
<h1>How did I learn?</h1>

  - https://www.udemy.com/course/java-tutorial
  -  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_(programming_language)

<h1>Challenges faced</h1>

- faces issues in assigning string values to local global variables.
- To resolve this implemented methods and used var let and const keywords in methods and tried the usage of this variables 
