---
title: "New Learning Language - Java strings"
---

 <h1>Strings in java</h1>

- Strings are used for storing text.
- A String variable contains a collection of characters surrounded by double quotes.

- String greeting = "Hello";


**code for declaring string variables in java**

 - The code structure of an string variable is as follows:

**String Length:**

   - A String in Java is actually an object, which contain methods that can perform certain operations on strings. For example, the length of a string can be found with the length() method.
   - The code structure of an string length is as follows:
   
**Finding a Character in a String:**

   - The indexOf() method returns the index (the position) of the first occurrence of a specified text in a string (including whitespace).
   - The code structure of an character string is as follows:
   
**Java String Concatenation:**

   - The + operator can be used between strings to combine them. This is called concatenation.
   -  The code structure of an string concatenation is as follows:
   
 **Java Numbers and Strings:**
 
   - If you add two numbers, the result will be a number.
   - The code structure of an numbers and strings is as follows:
  
 **Strings - Special Characters**
 
  - Because strings must be written within quotes, Java will misunderstand this string, and generate an error.
  - The code structure of an special characters is as follows:
  
<h1>How did I learn?</h1>

  - https://www.udemy.com/course/java-tutorial
  -  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_(programming_language)

<h1>Challenges faced</h1>

- In this blog I have learned various looping statements out of them practicing switch case statement was the challenge I faced. I had referred to few tutorials and learned the concept and implemented the same. 
